ray_julia_jll/gen/README.md, before:

# Building and Publishing JLLs

1. Run the `make.jl` script to build the tarball for the host platform and a given julia-version.
Builds are required for `linux x86_64` and `macos-arm64` on julia `v1.8` and `v1.9`.
It is advised you run this within the python virtual environment associated with the root package.
Note: rerunning this script _will overwrite_ an existing tarball.
```
julia --project -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.instantiate()'
julia --project make.jl
```

2. Run the `upload.jl` script to publish the tarball(s) as asset(s) of a GitHub pre-release, which requires a `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.
Note: you can run this script after building each tarball, or after you've built them all. Rerunning it will only upload new tarballs and skip any that have already been published.
```
read -s GITHUB_TOKEN
export GITHUB_TOKEN
julia --project upload.jl
```

3. Once all assets are uploaded, create a PR which updates the Artifacts.toml with the corresponding artifact URLs. 
<!-- TODO: The CI workflows for this PR can run successfully and the referenced artifacts will be accessible. -->

4. Once that PR is merged, delete the existing tag (which will convert the release to a draft) and create a new one (with the same version) from the commit you just merged.
Then update the GitHub release to point to the new tag.

5. Register the new tag as normal with JuliaRegistrator.

Commit message:

Utils to update Artifacts.toml (#134)
Co-authored-by: Curtis Vogt <curtis.vogt@gmail.com>

ray_julia_jll/gen/README.md, after:

# Building and Publishing JLLs

1. Run the `make.jl` script to build the tarball for the host platform and a given julia-version.
Builds are required for `linux x86_64` and `macos-arm64` on julia `v1.8` and `v1.9`.
It is advised you run this within the python virtual environment associated with the root package.
Note: rerunning this script _will overwrite_ an existing tarball.
```
julia --project -e 'using Pkg; Pkg.develop(path=".."); Pkg.instantiate()'
julia --project make.jl
```

2. Run the `upload.jl` script to publish the tarball(s) as asset(s) of a GitHub pre-release, which requires a `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.
Note: you can run this script after building each tarball, or after you've built them all. Rerunning it will only upload new tarballs and skip any that have already been published.
```
read -s GITHUB_TOKEN
export GITHUB_TOKEN
julia --project upload.jl
```

3. Once all assets are uploaded, checkout a new branch (from `main`) and run the `artifacts.jl` script _once_.
This will update the `Artifacts.toml` with the new artifact(s), create the corresponding wrapper script(s), and push these changes to your branch, after which you can open a PR to `main`.
```
julia --project artifacts.jl
```
<!-- TODO: The CI workflows for this PR can run successfully and the referenced artifacts will be accessible. -->

4. Once that PR is merged, delete the existing tag (which will convert the release to a draft) and create a new one (with the same version) from the commit you just merged.
Then update the GitHub release to point to the new tag.

5. Register the new tag as normal with JuliaRegistrator.
